README.md, before:

# js-spice

javascript wrapper for NASA/NAIF SPICE spaceflight geometry toolkit

## Installation

```bash
npm install js-spice
```

## Usage

```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
```

### Features

js-spice is a partial wrapping of the NASA NAIF SPICE toolkit, with additional types that can be used for convenience.  The wrapped functions preserve the documented parameters and usage documented in the official SPICE documentation such that it can be used as a reference source.

### Detailed Documentation

### API Reference

#### Types

##### EphemerisTime

```js
const spice = require('js-spice');

const et1 = new spice.EphemerisTime(0);
const et2 = new spice.EphemerisTime('2023-12-17T07:48:00');

console.log(et1.toString());            // logs '0.000000'
console.log(et1.toString('C'));         // logs '2000 JAN 01 11:58:56'
console.log(et2.toString());            // logs '756071349.183489'
console.log(et2.toString('ISOC', 14));  // logs '2023-12-17T07:48:00.0000000000000'

const et2jsonstr = JSON.stringify(et2);
console.log(et2jsonstr);                // logs '{"et":756071349.1834894}'

const et2json = JSON.parse(et2jsonstr);
const et3 = spice.EphemerisTime.fromJson(et2json);

console.log(et3.toString('C'));         // logs '2023 DEC 17 07:48:00'

// Time + Period = Time
const et4 = et2.add(new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromDays(1));
console.log(et4.toJSON());              // { et: 756157749.1834894 }
const et5 = et2.add(new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromDays(1));
console.log(et5.toString('C'));         // logs '2023 DEC 18 07:48:00'
const et6 = et2.add({"dt" : 60*60*24 });
console.log(et6.toString('C'));         // logs '2023 DEC 18 07:48:00'

// Time - Time = Period
const dt1 = et5.subtract(et2);
console.log(JSON.stringify(dt1));       // logs '{"dt":86400}'

// Time - Period = Time
const et7 = et5.subtract(dt1);
console.log(JSON.stringify(et7));       // logs '{"et":756071349.1834894}'


```


##### EphemerisPeriod

```js
const oneSecond = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromSeconds(1);
const oneMinute = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromMinutes(1);
const oneHour = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromHours(1);
const oneDay = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromDays(1);
const oneYear = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromYears(1);
const oneJulianYear = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromJulianYears(1);
const oneTropicalYear = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromTropicalYears(1);
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getTropicalYears()); // logs '1'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getJulianYears());   // logs '0.9999786414784394'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getYears());         // logs '0.9999786414784394'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getDays());          // logs '365.2421988'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getHours());         // logs '8765.812771199999'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getMinutes());       // logs '525948.7662719999'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getSeconds());       // logs '31556925.97632'

let dt = new spice.EphemerisPeriod(0);
dt.setYears(1);
```


```js
console.log(oneMinute.add(oneSecond).toString());                   // logs '61'
console.log(oneMinute.add({"dt" : -1}).toString());                 // logs '59'
console.log(oneMinute.add(1).toString());                           // logs '61'
console.log(oneMinute.subtract(oneSecond).toString());              // logs '59'
console.log(oneMinute.multiply(2).toString());                      // logs '120.000000'
console.log(oneMinute.divide(oneSecond));                           // logs '60'
const seventyFiveSeconds = oneMinute.multiply(1.25);
console.log(seventyFiveSeconds.mod(oneMinute).toString());          // logs '15.000000'
console.log(seventyFiveSeconds.mod({"dt" : 60}).toString());        // logs '15.000000'
```

```js
// EphemerisPeriod/EphemerisPeriod = dimensionless scalar
console.log(JSON.stringify(oneMinute.divide({"dt" : 60})));   // logs '1'
// EphemerisPeriod/dimensionless scalar = EphemerisPeriod
console.log(JSON.stringify(oneMinute.divide(60)));   // logs '{"dt":1}'
```

##### Distance
```js
let distance = new spice.Distance.fromKilometers(1);
let meters = new spice.Distance.getMeters();
distance.setMeters(1000);
```

```js
const oneMM = new spice.Distance.fromMillimeters(1);
const oneCM = new spice.Distance.fromCentimeters(1);
const oneM = new spice.Distance.fromMeters(1);
const oneKM = new spice.Distance.fromKilometers(1);
const oneInch = new spice.Distance.fromInches(1);
const oneFoot = new spice.Distance.fromFeet(1);
const oneYard = new spice.Distance.fromYards(1);
const oneStatuteMile = new spice.Distance.fromStatuteMiles(1);
const oneNauticalMile = new spice.Distance.fromNauticalMiles(1);
const oneAU = new spice.Distance.fromAstronomicalUnits(1);
const oneParsec = new spice.Distance.fromParsecs(1);
const oneLightSec = new spice.Distance.fromLightSeconds(1);
const oneLightYear = new spice.Distance.fromLightYears(1);
console.log(oneParsec.getLightYears());              // logs '3.261563775298437'
console.log(oneLightYear.getLightSeconds());         // logs '31557600'
console.log(oneLightYear.getParsecs());              // logs '0.3066013939612445'
console.log(oneLightYear.getAstronomicalUnits());    // logs '63241.077120753485'
console.log(oneAU.getNauticalMiles());               // logs '80776388.02035037'
console.log(oneNauticalMile.getStatuteMiles());      // logs '1.1507794480235425'
console.log(oneStatuteMile.getYards());              // logs '1760'
console.log(oneStatuteMile.getFeet());               // logs '5280'
console.log(oneFoot.getInches());                    // logs '12.000000000000002'
console.log(oneStatuteMile.getKilometers());         // logs '1.609344'
console.log(oneKM.getMeters());                      // logs '1000'
console.log(oneKM.getCentimeters());                 // logs '100000'
console.log(oneKM.getMillimeters());                 // logs '1000000'
```

```js
console.log(oneKM.add(oneM).toString());                        // logs '1.001'
console.log(oneKM.add({"km" : -0.001 }).toString());            // logs '0.999'
console.log(oneKM.add(1).toString());                           // logs '2.000000'
console.log(oneKM.subtract(oneM).toString());                   // logs '0.999'
console.log(oneKM.multiply(2).toString());                      // logs '2.000000'
console.log(oneKM.divide(oneM));                                // logs '1000'
const seventyFiveMeters = new spice.Distance.fromMeters(75);
const fiftyMeters = new spice.Distance.fromMeters(50);
console.log(seventyFiveMeters.mod(fiftyMeters).toString());     // logs '0.025000'
console.log(seventyFiveMeters.mod({"km" : 0.01}).toString());   // logs '0.005000'
```

```js
console.log(spice.Distance.isA(oneKM));                        // logs 'true'
console.log(spice.Distance.isA({"km";}));                      // logs 'false'
```

##### DistanceVector

```js
const newVector = new spice.DistanceVector();
console.log(spice.DistanceVector.isA(newVector));               // logs 'true'
console.log(spice.Distance.isA(newVector));                     // logs 'false'
console.log(spice.Distance.isA(newVector.getX()));              // logs 'true'
```

#### Functions

# pi
    console.log(spice.pi());

# halfpi
    console.log(spice.halfpi());
    console.log(spice.twopi());

# twopi

# bodvrd
    console.log(spice.bodvrd("earth", "GM"));
    console.log(spice.bodvrd("earth", "RADII"));

# convrt
    console.log(spice.convrt(1, "FEET", "INCHES"));
    console.log(spice.convrt([0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10], "YARDS", "FEET"));

# azlrec
    console.log(spice.azlrec({"range" : 10000, "az" : 2, "el" : -1}, true, true));

# cylrec
    console.log(spice.cylrec({"r" : 10000, "clon" : 2, "z" : -100 }));

# georec
    console.log(spice.georec({"lon" : 1, "lat" : -1, "alt" : 1000 }, 10000, 0));

# latrec
    console.log(spice.latrec({"radius" : 10000, "lon" : 2, "lat" : -1 }));

# sphrec
    console.log(spice.sphrec({"r" : 10000, "colat" : 2, "slon" : -1 }));

# pgrrec
    console.log(spice.pgrrec("earth", {"lon" : 1, "lat" : -1, "alt" : 10000 }, 6000, 0));

##### erract

###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.erract('set', 'return');
```

##### errdev

###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.errdev('set', 'null');
```

##### errprt

###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.errprt('set', 'short');
```

##### furnsh

###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.furnsh("C:\\naif\\kernels\\Generic\\LSK\\latest_leapseconds.tls");
```


##### gfposc

###### example

From:
https://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/req/gf.html#Natural%20satellite%20occultation%20or%20transit


```js
    const kernelsToLoad = [
        'lsk/a_old_versions/naif0009.tls',
        'pck/a_old_versions/pck00008.tpc',
        'spk/planets/a_old_versions/de421.bsp',
        'spk/satellites/a_old_versions/sat288.bsp',
        'spk/stations/a_old_versions/earthstns_itrf93_050714.bsp',
        'fk/stations/a_old_versions/earth_topo_050714.tf',
        'pck/a_old_versions/earth_070425_370426_predict.bpc',
    ];


    async function loadAndProcessFiles(files) {
        const operations = files.map(file => {
            return genericKernels.getGenericKernel(file, `data/naif/generic_kernels/${file}`).then(kernel => {
                spice.furnsh(kernel);
            });
        });
    
        await Promise.all(operations);
        console.log("done loading kernels");
    }
    await loadAndProcessFiles(kernelsToLoad);    

    try{
         /*
        We'll consider Saturn to be visible from DSS-14 when
        Saturn has elevation above 6 degrees in the DSS-14
        topocentric reference frame DSS-14_TOPO. 
        
        Create a confinement window for the view period
        search. This window contains the start and stop times
        of the search interval.
        */
        
        const et0 = now();
        const et1 = now() + spice.spd() * 5;
        const cnfine = [[et0, et1]];

        /*
          Set the observer, target and reference frame.
          */
        const obsrvr = "DSS-14";
        const target = "SATURN";
        const frame  = "DSS-14_TOPO";

        /*
        The coordinate system is latitudinal; in this system,
        in the DSS-14_TOPO frame, the coordinate "latitude"
        is equivalent to elevation.
        */
        const crdsys = "LATITUDINAL";
        const coord  = "LATITUDE";

        /*
        The relational operator for this search is "greater
        than" and the reference value is 6 degrees (converted
        to radians).
        */
        const relate = ">";
        const refval = 6.0 * spice.rpd();

        /*
        We're looking for the apparent position of Saturn,
        so apply corrections for light time and stellar
        aberration.
        */
        const abcorr = "LT+S";

        /*
        Set the step size for this search. The step must
        be shorter than the shortest interval over which
        the elevation is increasing or decreasing.
        We pick a conservative value: 6 hours. Units
        expected by SPICE are TDB seconds.
        */
        const step   =  spice.spd() / 4;

        /*
        The adjustment value isn't used for this search;
        set it to 0.
        */
        const adjust = 0.0;

        /*
        The number of intervals will be left as default
        and the argument omitted.
    
        Execute the search.
        */        
        console.log("\n\nStarting elevation search.\n");

        const result = spice.gfposc(
            target, frame, abcorr, obsrvr,
            crdsys, coord, relate, refval,
            adjust, step,  cnfine);

        console.log("Done.\n");

        /*
        Display the times of rise and set.
        */
        console.log( "\nTimes of Saturn rise/set as seen from DSS-14:\n\n" );

        const timeformat = "YYYY MON DD HR:MN:SC.###### TDB::RND::TDB";
        if(Array.isArray(result)){
            result.forEach((window)=>{
                et0str = spice.timout(window[0], timeformat);
                et1str = spice.timout(window[1], timeformat);
                console.log(`${et0str} ${et1str}`);
            });
        }
    }
    catch(error){
        console.error(error);
    }
```

##### evpsg4

https://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/cspice/getelm_c.html

###### Usage

```js
const {spice, geophysical} = require('js-spice');

const tles = [
        "1 43908U 18111AJ  20146.60805006  .00000806  00000-0  34965-4 0  9999",
        "2 43908  97.2676  47.2136 0020001 220.6050 139.3698 15.24999521 78544"
    ];
// use spice to parse the tle data into useable form (epoch and elements are returned as 'epoch' and 'elems')
const getelm_result = spice.getelm(1957, tles);
const elems = getelm_result.elems;

// download https://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/generic_kernels/pck/geophysical.ker if necessary and furnsh it
const geophs = await geophysical.getGeophysicalConstants(true);

const stateVector = spice.evsgp4(spice.str2et('2020-05-26 02:25:00'), geophs, elems);

console.log(JSON.stringify(stateVector));
```

##### unload
###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.unload("C:\\naif\\kernels\\Generic\\LSK\\latest_leapseconds.tls");
```

##### str2et
###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.unload("C:\\naif\\kernels\\Generic\\LSK\\latest_leapseconds.tls");
```

##### spkezr
https://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/cspice/spkezr_c.html

###### Usage
```js
// init js-spice, load kernels
let result = spice.spkezr('moon', new spice.EphemerisTime('Dec 17, 2023, 14:10:00'), 'J2000', 'NONE', 'earth');
console.log(result.toString());
```

##### spkpos
###### Usage
```js
// init js-spice, load kernels
let result = spice.spkpos('moon', new spice.EphemerisTime('Dec 17, 2023, 14:10:00'), 'J2000', 'NONE', 'earth');
```

##### spkgps
###### Usage
```js
// init js-spice, load kernels
let result = spice.spkgps(199, et_now(), "J2000", 399);;
```


##### spkgeo
###### Usage
```js
// init js-spice, load kernels
let result = spice.spkgeo(199, et_now(), "J2000", 399);
```

##### spkcpo
###### Usage
```js
result = spice.spkcpo("mercury", et_now(), "J2000", "OBSERVER", "NONE", [1,1,1], "EARTH", "J2000");
```

##### spkcpt
###### Usage
```js
result = spice.spkcpt([1,1,1], "mercury", "J2000", et_now(), "J2000", "OBSERVER", "NONE", "EARTH");
```

##### spkcvo
###### Usage
```js
result = spice.spkcvo("mercury", et_now(), "J2000", "OBSERVER", "NONE", {r:[1,1,1],v:[0,0,0]}, et_now(), "EARTH", "J2000");
```

##### spkcvt
###### Usage
```js
result = spice.spkcvt({r:[1,1,1],v:[0,0,0]}, et_now(), "mercury", "J2000", et_now(), "J2000", "OBSERVER", "NONE", "EARTH");
```

##### spkw05
###### Usage
```js
let gm = spice.bodvrd("earth", "GM");
let handle = spice.spkopn("myspk.bsp", "myspk", 80);
spice.spkw05(handle, 20580, 399, "J2000", first_et, last_et, "foo", gm, samples);
spice.spkcls(handle);
```

##### timout

###### Usage
```js
console.log(spice.timout(now(), 'MON DD,YYYY  HR:MN:SC.#### (TDB) ::TDB'));
```


### Adding js-spice as a git submodule to a host app

Adding the js-spice module to a host application using Git submodules involves a series of steps. Here's a guide to help you through the process:

#### 1 Initialize the Host Application Repository (If Not Already Done):
* If your host application isn't already a Git repository, initialize it with `git init`.

#### 2 Add the Module as a Submodule:
* Navigate to the root directory of your host application.
* Use the command `git submodule add <repository URL of your module>` to add your module as a submodule. Replace `<repository URL of your module>` with the actual URL of the js-spice Git repository.

##### 3 Specify the Path for the Submodule:
* While adding the submodule, you can also specify a path where you want the submodule to be placed. For instance: `git submodule add <repository URL> <desired path>`.
* If you don't specify a path, the submodule will be placed in a directory with the same name as the repository by default.

#### 4 Initialize and Update the Submodule:
* Run `git submodule init` to initialize your submodule.
* Then, run `git submodule update` to fetch all the data from the submodule project and check out the specified commit in your submodule.

#### 5 Commit the Changes in the Host Application:
* After adding the submodule, you will see changes in your host application's repository. These changes include the addition of the `.gitmodules` file and the submodule's directory.
* Commit these changes with `git add .` and `git commit -m "Add js-spice as a submodule"`.

#### 6 Clone the Host Application Along with Submodules:
* If you need to clone the host application repository along with its submodules, use the command `git clone --recurse-submodules <repository URL of host application>`.

#### 7 Update the Submodule:
* To update the js-spice module to the latest commit available in its repository, navigate to the submodule's directory and run `git pull origin master` (or the branch you wish to pull from).
* Then, go back to your host application's root directory and commit the changes.

#### 8 Push the Changes to the Host Application Repository:
* After committing the changes, push them to the host application repository with `git push`.
Remember, each submodule is essentially a separate Git repository, so you need to commit and push changes within each submodule separately, as well as in the host repository.


### License
MIT License.

Commit message:

Added excuse the mess disclaimer

README.md, after:

# js-spice

javascript wrapper for NASA/NAIF SPICE spaceflight geometry toolkit

See this project for an example of a web server that uses this module:
https://github.com/gamergenic/earth-moon-sun

## Please excuse the mess while we remodel

This module is currently a work in progress, not yet (adequately) tested, and as you can see from below the docs are mostly scribbled notes of usage instances.   Feel free to experiment with it if you like, but just beware that it's still shifting.


## Installation

```bash
npm install js-spice
```

## Usage

```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
```

### Features

js-spice is a partial wrapping of the NASA NAIF SPICE toolkit, with additional types that can be used for convenience.  The wrapped functions preserve the documented parameters and usage documented in the official SPICE documentation such that it can be used as a reference source.

### Detailed Documentation

### API Reference

#### Types

##### EphemerisTime

```js
const spice = require('js-spice');

const et1 = new spice.EphemerisTime(0);
const et2 = new spice.EphemerisTime('2023-12-17T07:48:00');

console.log(et1.toString());            // logs '0.000000'
console.log(et1.toString('C'));         // logs '2000 JAN 01 11:58:56'
console.log(et2.toString());            // logs '756071349.183489'
console.log(et2.toString('ISOC', 14));  // logs '2023-12-17T07:48:00.0000000000000'

const et2jsonstr = JSON.stringify(et2);
console.log(et2jsonstr);                // logs '{"et":756071349.1834894}'

const et2json = JSON.parse(et2jsonstr);
const et3 = spice.EphemerisTime.fromJson(et2json);

console.log(et3.toString('C'));         // logs '2023 DEC 17 07:48:00'

// Time + Period = Time
const et4 = et2.add(new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromDays(1));
console.log(et4.toJSON());              // { et: 756157749.1834894 }
const et5 = et2.add(new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromDays(1));
console.log(et5.toString('C'));         // logs '2023 DEC 18 07:48:00'
const et6 = et2.add({"dt" : 60*60*24 });
console.log(et6.toString('C'));         // logs '2023 DEC 18 07:48:00'

// Time - Time = Period
const dt1 = et5.subtract(et2);
console.log(JSON.stringify(dt1));       // logs '{"dt":86400}'

// Time - Period = Time
const et7 = et5.subtract(dt1);
console.log(JSON.stringify(et7));       // logs '{"et":756071349.1834894}'


```


##### EphemerisPeriod

```js
const oneSecond = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromSeconds(1);
const oneMinute = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromMinutes(1);
const oneHour = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromHours(1);
const oneDay = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromDays(1);
const oneYear = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromYears(1);
const oneJulianYear = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromJulianYears(1);
const oneTropicalYear = new spice.EphemerisPeriod.fromTropicalYears(1);
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getTropicalYears()); // logs '1'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getJulianYears());   // logs '0.9999786414784394'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getYears());         // logs '0.9999786414784394'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getDays());          // logs '365.2421988'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getHours());         // logs '8765.812771199999'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getMinutes());       // logs '525948.7662719999'
console.log(oneTropicalYear.getSeconds());       // logs '31556925.97632'

let dt = new spice.EphemerisPeriod(0);
dt.setYears(1);
```


```js
console.log(oneMinute.add(oneSecond).toString());                   // logs '61'
console.log(oneMinute.add({"dt" : -1}).toString());                 // logs '59'
console.log(oneMinute.add(1).toString());                           // logs '61'
console.log(oneMinute.subtract(oneSecond).toString());              // logs '59'
console.log(oneMinute.multiply(2).toString());                      // logs '120.000000'
console.log(oneMinute.divide(oneSecond));                           // logs '60'
const seventyFiveSeconds = oneMinute.multiply(1.25);
console.log(seventyFiveSeconds.mod(oneMinute).toString());          // logs '15.000000'
console.log(seventyFiveSeconds.mod({"dt" : 60}).toString());        // logs '15.000000'
```

```js
// EphemerisPeriod/EphemerisPeriod = dimensionless scalar
console.log(JSON.stringify(oneMinute.divide({"dt" : 60})));   // logs '1'
// EphemerisPeriod/dimensionless scalar = EphemerisPeriod
console.log(JSON.stringify(oneMinute.divide(60)));   // logs '{"dt":1}'
```

##### Distance
```js
let distance = new spice.Distance.fromKilometers(1);
let meters = new spice.Distance.getMeters();
distance.setMeters(1000);
```

```js
const oneMM = new spice.Distance.fromMillimeters(1);
const oneCM = new spice.Distance.fromCentimeters(1);
const oneM = new spice.Distance.fromMeters(1);
const oneKM = new spice.Distance.fromKilometers(1);
const oneInch = new spice.Distance.fromInches(1);
const oneFoot = new spice.Distance.fromFeet(1);
const oneYard = new spice.Distance.fromYards(1);
const oneStatuteMile = new spice.Distance.fromStatuteMiles(1);
const oneNauticalMile = new spice.Distance.fromNauticalMiles(1);
const oneAU = new spice.Distance.fromAstronomicalUnits(1);
const oneParsec = new spice.Distance.fromParsecs(1);
const oneLightSec = new spice.Distance.fromLightSeconds(1);
const oneLightYear = new spice.Distance.fromLightYears(1);
console.log(oneParsec.getLightYears());              // logs '3.261563775298437'
console.log(oneLightYear.getLightSeconds());         // logs '31557600'
console.log(oneLightYear.getParsecs());              // logs '0.3066013939612445'
console.log(oneLightYear.getAstronomicalUnits());    // logs '63241.077120753485'
console.log(oneAU.getNauticalMiles());               // logs '80776388.02035037'
console.log(oneNauticalMile.getStatuteMiles());      // logs '1.1507794480235425'
console.log(oneStatuteMile.getYards());              // logs '1760'
console.log(oneStatuteMile.getFeet());               // logs '5280'
console.log(oneFoot.getInches());                    // logs '12.000000000000002'
console.log(oneStatuteMile.getKilometers());         // logs '1.609344'
console.log(oneKM.getMeters());                      // logs '1000'
console.log(oneKM.getCentimeters());                 // logs '100000'
console.log(oneKM.getMillimeters());                 // logs '1000000'
```

```js
console.log(oneKM.add(oneM).toString());                        // logs '1.001'
console.log(oneKM.add({"km" : -0.001 }).toString());            // logs '0.999'
console.log(oneKM.add(1).toString());                           // logs '2.000000'
console.log(oneKM.subtract(oneM).toString());                   // logs '0.999'
console.log(oneKM.multiply(2).toString());                      // logs '2.000000'
console.log(oneKM.divide(oneM));                                // logs '1000'
const seventyFiveMeters = new spice.Distance.fromMeters(75);
const fiftyMeters = new spice.Distance.fromMeters(50);
console.log(seventyFiveMeters.mod(fiftyMeters).toString());     // logs '0.025000'
console.log(seventyFiveMeters.mod({"km" : 0.01}).toString());   // logs '0.005000'
```

```js
console.log(spice.Distance.isA(oneKM));                        // logs 'true'
console.log(spice.Distance.isA({"km";}));                      // logs 'false'
```

##### DistanceVector

```js
const newVector = new spice.DistanceVector();
console.log(spice.DistanceVector.isA(newVector));               // logs 'true'
console.log(spice.Distance.isA(newVector));                     // logs 'false'
console.log(spice.Distance.isA(newVector.getX()));              // logs 'true'
```

#### Functions

# pi
    console.log(spice.pi());

# halfpi
    console.log(spice.halfpi());
    console.log(spice.twopi());

# twopi

# bodvrd
    console.log(spice.bodvrd("earth", "GM"));
    console.log(spice.bodvrd("earth", "RADII"));

# convrt
    console.log(spice.convrt(1, "FEET", "INCHES"));
    console.log(spice.convrt([0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10], "YARDS", "FEET"));

# azlrec
    console.log(spice.azlrec({"range" : 10000, "az" : 2, "el" : -1}, true, true));

# cylrec
    console.log(spice.cylrec({"r" : 10000, "clon" : 2, "z" : -100 }));

# georec
    console.log(spice.georec({"lon" : 1, "lat" : -1, "alt" : 1000 }, 10000, 0));

# latrec
    console.log(spice.latrec({"radius" : 10000, "lon" : 2, "lat" : -1 }));

# sphrec
    console.log(spice.sphrec({"r" : 10000, "colat" : 2, "slon" : -1 }));

# pgrrec
    console.log(spice.pgrrec("earth", {"lon" : 1, "lat" : -1, "alt" : 10000 }, 6000, 0));

##### erract

###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.erract('set', 'return');
```

##### errdev

###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.errdev('set', 'null');
```

##### errprt

###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.errprt('set', 'short');
```

##### furnsh

###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.furnsh("C:\\naif\\kernels\\Generic\\LSK\\latest_leapseconds.tls");
```


##### gfposc

###### example

From:
https://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/req/gf.html#Natural%20satellite%20occultation%20or%20transit


```js
    const kernelsToLoad = [
        'lsk/a_old_versions/naif0009.tls',
        'pck/a_old_versions/pck00008.tpc',
        'spk/planets/a_old_versions/de421.bsp',
        'spk/satellites/a_old_versions/sat288.bsp',
        'spk/stations/a_old_versions/earthstns_itrf93_050714.bsp',
        'fk/stations/a_old_versions/earth_topo_050714.tf',
        'pck/a_old_versions/earth_070425_370426_predict.bpc',
    ];


    async function loadAndProcessFiles(files) {
        const operations = files.map(file => {
            return genericKernels.getGenericKernel(file, `data/naif/generic_kernels/${file}`).then(kernel => {
                spice.furnsh(kernel);
            });
        });
    
        await Promise.all(operations);
        console.log("done loading kernels");
    }
    await loadAndProcessFiles(kernelsToLoad);    

    try{
         /*
        We'll consider Saturn to be visible from DSS-14 when
        Saturn has elevation above 6 degrees in the DSS-14
        topocentric reference frame DSS-14_TOPO. 
        
        Create a confinement window for the view period
        search. This window contains the start and stop times
        of the search interval.
        */
        
        const et0 = now();
        const et1 = now() + spice.spd() * 5;
        const cnfine = [[et0, et1]];

        /*
          Set the observer, target and reference frame.
          */
        const obsrvr = "DSS-14";
        const target = "SATURN";
        const frame  = "DSS-14_TOPO";

        /*
        The coordinate system is latitudinal; in this system,
        in the DSS-14_TOPO frame, the coordinate "latitude"
        is equivalent to elevation.
        */
        const crdsys = "LATITUDINAL";
        const coord  = "LATITUDE";

        /*
        The relational operator for this search is "greater
        than" and the reference value is 6 degrees (converted
        to radians).
        */
        const relate = ">";
        const refval = 6.0 * spice.rpd();

        /*
        We're looking for the apparent position of Saturn,
        so apply corrections for light time and stellar
        aberration.
        */
        const abcorr = "LT+S";

        /*
        Set the step size for this search. The step must
        be shorter than the shortest interval over which
        the elevation is increasing or decreasing.
        We pick a conservative value: 6 hours. Units
        expected by SPICE are TDB seconds.
        */
        const step   =  spice.spd() / 4;

        /*
        The adjustment value isn't used for this search;
        set it to 0.
        */
        const adjust = 0.0;

        /*
        The number of intervals will be left as default
        and the argument omitted.
    
        Execute the search.
        */        
        console.log("\n\nStarting elevation search.\n");

        const result = spice.gfposc(
            target, frame, abcorr, obsrvr,
            crdsys, coord, relate, refval,
            adjust, step,  cnfine);

        console.log("Done.\n");

        /*
        Display the times of rise and set.
        */
        console.log( "\nTimes of Saturn rise/set as seen from DSS-14:\n\n" );

        const timeformat = "YYYY MON DD HR:MN:SC.###### TDB::RND::TDB";
        if(Array.isArray(result)){
            result.forEach((window)=>{
                et0str = spice.timout(window[0], timeformat);
                et1str = spice.timout(window[1], timeformat);
                console.log(`${et0str} ${et1str}`);
            });
        }
    }
    catch(error){
        console.error(error);
    }
```

##### evpsg4

https://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/cspice/getelm_c.html

###### Usage

```js
const {spice, geophysical} = require('js-spice');

const tles = [
        "1 43908U 18111AJ  20146.60805006  .00000806  00000-0  34965-4 0  9999",
        "2 43908  97.2676  47.2136 0020001 220.6050 139.3698 15.24999521 78544"
    ];
// use spice to parse the tle data into useable form (epoch and elements are returned as 'epoch' and 'elems')
const getelm_result = spice.getelm(1957, tles);
const elems = getelm_result.elems;

// download https://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/generic_kernels/pck/geophysical.ker if necessary and furnsh it
const geophs = await geophysical.getGeophysicalConstants(true);

const stateVector = spice.evsgp4(spice.str2et('2020-05-26 02:25:00'), geophs, elems);

console.log(JSON.stringify(stateVector));
```

##### unload
###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.unload("C:\\naif\\kernels\\Generic\\LSK\\latest_leapseconds.tls");
```

##### str2et
###### Usage
```js
const spice = require('js-spice');
spice.unload("C:\\naif\\kernels\\Generic\\LSK\\latest_leapseconds.tls");
```

##### spkezr
https://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/cspice/spkezr_c.html

###### Usage
```js
// init js-spice, load kernels
let result = spice.spkezr('moon', new spice.EphemerisTime('Dec 17, 2023, 14:10:00'), 'J2000', 'NONE', 'earth');
console.log(result.toString());
```

##### spkpos
###### Usage
```js
// init js-spice, load kernels
let result = spice.spkpos('moon', new spice.EphemerisTime('Dec 17, 2023, 14:10:00'), 'J2000', 'NONE', 'earth');
```

##### spkgps
###### Usage
```js
// init js-spice, load kernels
let result = spice.spkgps(199, et_now(), "J2000", 399);;
```


##### spkgeo
###### Usage
```js
// init js-spice, load kernels
let result = spice.spkgeo(199, et_now(), "J2000", 399);
```

##### spkcpo
###### Usage
```js
result = spice.spkcpo("mercury", et_now(), "J2000", "OBSERVER", "NONE", [1,1,1], "EARTH", "J2000");
```

##### spkcpt
###### Usage
```js
result = spice.spkcpt([1,1,1], "mercury", "J2000", et_now(), "J2000", "OBSERVER", "NONE", "EARTH");
```

##### spkcvo
###### Usage
```js
result = spice.spkcvo("mercury", et_now(), "J2000", "OBSERVER", "NONE", {r:[1,1,1],v:[0,0,0]}, et_now(), "EARTH", "J2000");
```

##### spkcvt
###### Usage
```js
result = spice.spkcvt({r:[1,1,1],v:[0,0,0]}, et_now(), "mercury", "J2000", et_now(), "J2000", "OBSERVER", "NONE", "EARTH");
```

##### spkw05
###### Usage
```js
let gm = spice.bodvrd("earth", "GM");
let handle = spice.spkopn("myspk.bsp", "myspk", 80);
spice.spkw05(handle, 20580, 399, "J2000", first_et, last_et, "foo", gm, samples);
spice.spkcls(handle);
```

##### timout

###### Usage
```js
console.log(spice.timout(now(), 'MON DD,YYYY  HR:MN:SC.#### (TDB) ::TDB'));
```


### Adding js-spice as a git submodule to a host app

Adding the js-spice module to a host application using Git submodules involves a series of steps. Here's a guide to help you through the process:

#### 1 Initialize the Host Application Repository (If Not Already Done):
* If your host application isn't already a Git repository, initialize it with `git init`.

#### 2 Add the Module as a Submodule:
* Navigate to the root directory of your host application.
* Use the command `git submodule add https://github.com/gamergenic/js-spice.git` to add your module as a submodule.

##### 3 Specify the Path for the Submodule:
* While adding the submodule, you can also specify a path where you want the submodule to be placed. For instance: `git submodule add https://github.com/gamergenic/js-spice.git <desired path>`.
* If you don't specify a path, the submodule will be placed in a directory with the same name as the repository by default.

#### 4 Initialize and Update the Submodule:
* Run `git submodule init` to initialize your submodule.
* Then, run `git submodule update` to fetch all the data from the submodule project and check out the specified commit in your submodule.

#### 5 Commit the Changes in the Host Application:
* After adding the submodule, you will see changes in your host application's repository. These changes include the addition of the `.gitmodules` file and the submodule's directory.
* Commit these changes with `git add .` and `git commit -m "Add js-spice as a submodule"`.

#### 6 Clone the Host Application Along with Submodules:
* If you need to clone the host application repository along with its submodules, use the command `git clone --recurse-submodules <repository URL of host application>`.

#### 7 Update the Submodule:
* To update the js-spice module to the latest commit available in its repository, navigate to the submodule's directory and run `git pull origin master` (or the branch you wish to pull from).
* Then, go back to your host application's root directory and commit the changes.

#### 8 Push the Changes to the Host Application Repository:
* After committing the changes, push them to the host application repository with `git push`.
Remember, each submodule is essentially a separate Git repository, so you need to commit and push changes within each submodule separately, as well as in the host repository.

#### 9 Updating the js-spice module to latest from your host app:
```sh
cd modules/js-spice
git pull origin main
npm install
```

### License
MIT License.
